#labels Repulse,Documentation,README
#sidebar TableOfContents

=Documentation=

==Curses GUI==

===Keyboard Controls===
 * _Arrow key:_ moves the cursor in the spread-sheet like grid.
 * _Control key:_ press control and arrow keys to change the values.
 * _+ key:_ increment the selected preset number.
 * _- key:_ decrement the selected preset number.
 * _F1 key:_ create a new preset.
 * _F2 key:_ save the current preset.
 * _F3 key:_ recall the currently selected preset.
 * _F4 key:_ local on/off toggle.
   * When active the machine will interpret its control surface events and MIDI events.
   * When deactivated the machine will interpret only MIDI events.
 * _F5 key:_ alternate wheel toggle.
   * when activated the pitch bend wheel controls the engine's time stretch value.
   * When deactivated the pitch bend wheel controls the engine's transpose value.
 * _F6 key:_ omni on/off toggle.
   * When activated the machine will receive MIDI events in any channel.
   * When deactivated the machine will receive MIDI events only the base channel (10).
 * _F7 key:_ Mono on/off toggle.
   * When activated the machine operates in mono and does not mix-down the stereo channel.
   * When deactivated the machine operates in mono and does the mix-down of the stereo channel.
 * _F10 key:_ quits the software.
 * _F11 key:_ changes the MIDI base note, by default it is 60 (middle c).
 * _F12 key:_ changes the MIDI base channel, by default it is the channel 10.

===Engine DSP Controllers==
 * _Transpose:_ apply a pitch transposition by the given octaves to all voices.
 * _Stretch:_ time-stretch (does not change pitch) all voices by the given percentage.
 * _Volume:_ decrease or increase the voice gain.

===Voice DSP Controllers===
 * _Start:_ advance the sample start point by the given miliseconds.
 * _Soft Start:_ apply a quick attack envelope to the sound start.
 * _Transpose:_ apply a pitch transposition by the given octaves.
 * _Transpose Velocity:_ affect the transpose value by the note's velocity (by this percentage).
 * _Transpose Random:_ affect the transpose value by a random source (by this percentage).
 * _Stretch:_ time-stretch (does not change pitch) the voice by the given percentage.
 * _Stretch Velocity:_ affect the stretch value by the note's velocity (by this percentage).
 * _Stretch Type:_ choose from a set of time-stretch types to suit your sound's needs.
  * _Auto:_ should suit any sound type automatically.
  * _Speech:_ this type is well suited for speech sounds.
  * _Type 1:_ alternative mode to choose from.
  * _Type 2:_ alternative mode to choose from.
 * _Over Drive:_ overdrives the sound by the given amount, you have to activate the Saturation toggle.
 * _Saturate:_ activates the saturation of the sound by the given Over Drive amount.
 * _Filter Frequency:_ middle point frequency for the different filters.
 * _Filter:_ activate or deactivate the filter.
 * _Filter Type_: there are five types of filter to choose from.
  * _Low Pass_ filter.
  * _High Pass_ filter.
  * _Band Pass 1_ filter.
  * _Band Pass 2_ filter (an alternative implementation).
  * _Notch_ filter.
 * _Filter Resonance:_ controls the filter resonance value.
 * _Filter Velocity:_ affect the filter frequency value by the note's velocity (by this percentage).
 * _Filter Random:_ affect the filter frequency value by a random source (by this percentage).
 * _Decay:_ sets the envelope decay time in seconds
 * _Decay Envelope:_ there are three envelope types to choose from.
  * _Infinite:_ no envelope applied when this type is selected, the voice 'just' plays.
  * _Trigger:_ the decay envelope starts after a note on event.
  * _Gate:_ the decay envelope starts after a note off event.
 * _Panning:_ displaces the voice to the left or right of the stereo mix.
 * _Panning Velocity:_ affect the panning value by the note's velocity (by this percentage).
 * _Panning Random:_ affect the panning value by a random source (by this percentage).
 * _Volume:_ decrease or increase the voice gain.
 * _Volume Velocity:_ affect the volume value by the note's velocity (by this percentage).
 * _Mute:_ mute the selected voice.
 * _Solo:_ solo the selected voice.
 * _Join:_ stops the voice 7 when the voice 8 is started and viceversa.
.
==MIDI Control==

===Engine Controllers===
This are the controllers for the repulse engine, it listens to this controllers on the base channel 10 or omni.
 * You can send a _Program Change_ to select between the first 128 presets in the machine.
 * Sliding the _Pitch Wheel_ MIDI controller it is possible to apply a pitch transposition to all the voices.

|| *Name*              || *#* || *Description* ||
|| Program Change      || -   || Select a program between the 128 first contained in the machine. ||
|| Pitch Wheel         || -   || Apply a pitch transposition by the given octaves to all the voices. ||
|| Linked              || 2   || Stops the voice 7 when the voice 8 is started and viceversa (on/off). ||
|| Rranspose           || 4   || Apply a pitch transposition by the given octaves to all the voices (signed). ||
|| Stretch             || 5   || Apply time-stretch by the given percentage to all the voices (signed). ||
|| Volume              || 7   || Decrease or increase the voice gain. ||
|| All Sound Off       || 120 || Turns all the voices off (on/off). ||
|| all Controllers Off || 121 || Resets all the machine parameters to a default state (on/off). ||
|| Local Keyboard      || 122 || When activated the machine will interpret MIDI events and local surface events (on/off). ||
|| All Notes Off       || 123 || Turns all the voices off and sends a note off event to each voice (on/off). ||
|| Omni Mode Off       || 124 || Listen MIDI events only on channels 10 and 11 (on/off). ||
|| Omni Mode On        || 125 || Listen MIDI events on any channel (on/off). ||
|| Mono Operation      || 126 || Disable the stereo mix-down (on/off). ||
|| Poly Operation      || 127 || Enable the stereo mix-down (on/off). ||

<br>
===Voice controllers===
The list of voice MIDI controllers is quite extensive.<br>
You can check the Controller wiki page to view the complete list of voice controllers.<br>
The machine always receives voice controllers on channels 10 and 11.<br>